company: Genpact
Role: Data Analyst
Package: 10.95 LPA

Name: shreyansh gupta
roll: 207947

ROUNDS: 3
1: online test
2: interview
3: hr


Round 1(CODING ROUND):
DURATION : 1.5 HR
MCQ(10-15)+CODING(1)+SQL(2)         '*Number in bracket is count of questions in that section'

MCQ:
TOPICS:data structure,algorithms,javascript basic, oop in java

CODING: 
It is very easy level question based on array

SQL: 
TOPICS: joins,aggregative functions

"i completed it in 9 min(approx.)"

ROUNG 2(INTERVIEW):
DURATION: 26 MIN
There were 5 members in the call(interview) and each member is of different section.
1.They introduced themself first then they ask me to introduce myself.
  (In my introduction specificaly mention about WSDC so after that he asked me brif what WSDC is and what is does in NITW)
2. Then he pointed out that my profile is developer but the role i applied is analyst.
3. He asked why you want to work as an data analyst
4. He asked what do you know about our company and in which domanis we work
5. Do you know any recent work done by our company.
6. Why you want to work at genpact.

(NOTE : you may be thinking, all the above questions are hr question why they asked in the technical round. 
        I also didn't prepared for such question but somehow i managed to handle. The above section was something i never thought and was the hardest part
(kyuki mujhe pasina aane lgatha ki ye kya puch rahe he, ye to dekha hi nhi mene pure saale DSA aur CORE hi pda tha)

 TIP: question kaisa bhi ho try to be confident and positive)

7.After all this hurdles, finally they ask which is your favourite subject. I told  DBMS.
8.define database
9.what is DBMS
10.what are keys in dbms
11. what is the difference b/w NOSQL database and relational database
12. what is SQL
13. what is the importance of primary key

It was really going fantastic as the dbms section started. I was answering every question they were asking (now here is the climax)
and then one other guy from the call asked

12.Do you know any modern framework
   (i told yes i know django framework based on python)
13.He then asked do you know REACT 
   (i told directly NO)
14.He then asked do you know ANGULAR
   (again i directly told NO)
15.He then asked do you know JAVASCRIPT
   (i told very basic)
16. He then asked do you know PYTHON
   (i told, i have elementry knowledge and i can code in it but with the help of syntax references. 
     My primary language is CPP)
17. tell me the difference between PYTHON and CPP
18. tell the difference between for loop and while loop


18. what are candidate keys how they are different from primary keys

then last two questions 
19. let suppose you have a db table but in that you do not have primary key, then how will you select the primary key for faster quering
20. one client comes to you with the requirement to make a web application for LEAVE MANAGEMENT such that whenever an employee request for a leave that request should also be send 
    to the manager for approval then how will you approach it and tell me the basic prototype that you will build.

Then they told thats all from our side if you have any question then you can ask
then i asked one question related to companies culture and  what opportunities a fresher candidate gets

With this my round ended


ROUND 3(HR):
DURATION : 20 MIN

1.in this round firstly she introduced her and then asked me to introduce.
2. tell me about your family.
3. you are from which place
4. then she asked what are the thing that makes your hometown beautiful
5. what is your strength and weakness
6. are you willing to relocate
7. are you comfortable with the location

Then she again started talking about herself and the office in banglore location and ther was a normal conversion happen
then she asked do you have any other question. ( i asked about the locations available)

with this the round ended



TIPS : 1.don't be hyper or nervious when you are asked such questions which are completely blank for you.
       2. never lie to the interviewer
       3. Try to make a really very good conversation through out the interview
      

                     JUST TRY YOUR BEST AND FORGET THE REST 
                    HONA YA NA HONA TUMHARE HAATH ME NAHI HE
                          --- ONCE YOUR DAY WILL COME -- 

 
 